---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  UmVzdW1l
mt_id: 6
date: 2010-01-16 23:50:36.000000000 -08:00
---
Because this is the net, not paper, this is a slightly extended resume.  You may be looking for my more traditional <a href="http://www.kevinkuchta.com/blog/Resume.pdf">PDF one-page resume.</a>

##Kevin Kuchta

###Objectives
I'm looking for a full-time job after I graduate in the spring of 2011.  For this, I'm pretty open-ended; any company with interesting work and a decent wage has my ear.

###Employment History
####Web Developer @ RIT School of Film and Animation (11/1/08 to Present)
I'm the primary developer on a database-driven website called [SPDB](http://www.kevinkuchta.com/blog/projects/spdb.html) to help film students organize their projects, acquire actors/crew, and organize shoots. It's built on PHP and MySQL, using CodeIgnitor. I've worked on it through development and release leading to a successful roll-out to students in early 2009, and maintenance thereafter.
####Co-op Developer @ Parse3.com (6/1/10 to 9/1/10)
Taught myself ASP and C#;I worked on a 5-person team developing on both the front and back end of http://www.kumon.com/, which interfaced with the Sitecore CMS API.  I was also one of two developers on a new registration system for the Beautiful People baseball league for disabled children - I did the majority of the development on this.  I used VisualStudio 2010, SVN, NUnit, LLBLGen, and the Rhino Mocks framework on both projects.
####Developer @ IBM Lotus Lab (3/9/09 to 8/21/09)
I co-oped with IBM for 6 months, and worked on a medium-sized team using Scrum.  The work was on various client-side apps/widgets designed to run in Lotus Mashups and Lotus Connections, and was primarily javascript with the Dojo framework.
####Java Developer @ GE MDS (5/27/08 to 11/1/08)
I worked on a small team writing Java apps to manage industrial radios remotely over SNMP and locally via serial.  I used Java, CVS, Ant, Eclipse, and NSIS, and got to work in all stages of the software cycle, from requirements gathering to field testing and maintenance.  I was the primary developer through that entire cycle for an app called "Mobile iNet Utility" that was deployed to several hundred police cruisers in and around the city of Wichita Falls, Texas that managed in-car radios based on incoming gps data.
####Desktop Support Representative @ RIT ITS(10/15/06 - 5/16/08)
I was tier 2 Mac/Windows tech support for the Rochester Institute of Technology.  I created user documentation, did personal troubleshooting and phone support, building good written and verbal communication skills.
####Prior Jobs
*    Camp Counselor for a summer
*    Dishwasher @ Retirement home for a little over a year, quit when I left for college
*    Stable Hand @ Butterfly Hollow Stables for 5 years, left when I was old enough to get a better job

###Academic
I'm studying Software Engineering at the Rochester Institute of Technology, and I expect to graduate in May of 2011.  I have a GPA of 3.61/4.00 and a PFOS of 3.51/4.00.  I plan to minor in Computer Science and Political Science, with my application domain as Artificial Intelligence and an International Relations liberal arts concentration.

####Classes of interest
*    *Software Engineering* Survey of software engineering practice- design patterns, iterative process, requirements gathering, testing, presentations, code review, and team development.
*    *Engineering of Software Subsystem* Study of software design.  Involved design patterns, anti-patterns, design documentation, and characteristic of good design, as well as team design+development.
*    *Software Verification and Validation* Software testing.  Performed manual and automated unit, integration, system and acceptance testing.
*    *Principles of Concurrent Software Systems* Modeling and implementing highly concurrent systems.
*    *Principles of Information Systems Design* Design and implementation of business-level information systems.
*    *Software Architectures* Higher-level software design, especially of large systems
*    *Engineer Methods of Software Usability* Various aspects of HCI, including user experience testing, accessibility, internationalization, and general UI design principles.
*    *Principles of Distributed Software Systems* Design and implementation of distributed systems, including client-server, peer-to-peer, RPC, and COMET architecture analysis.
*    *Software Requirements and Specifications* Methods and experience soliciting, understanding, recording, and managing client requirements.

###Skills
####Languages
*Using Currently/Recently* - Java, C#, Ruby, PHP, HTML/CSS  
*Some Experience* - Python, C++, Common Lisp
####Frameworks/Libraries
*Using Currently/Recently* - ASP, Rails, CodeIgniter  
*Proficient* - Swing
*Some Experience* - JQuery, Dojo, Prototype
####Development Environment
*OSs* - OS X (Primary), Windows, Solaris  
*IDE's/Editors* - Visual Studios, Eclipse, TextMate/VIM, XCode, NetBeans

###Other Projects
####[kevinkuchta.com](http://www.kevinkuchta.com)
An exercise in HTML/CSS work, as well as a platform to discuss topics of interest in Software Engineering.

####[nothere.rit.edu](http://nothere.rit.edu) 
A more-or-less defunct site that was kevinkuchta.com's precursor.  It server as a platform to learn Ruby on Rails, and allowed me to manage several streams of images, posts, and projects from a centralized admin console.  I designed, wrote, and ran it in its entirety.

####RapDev
Short for Rapid Development Weekend.  The Society of Software Engineers does one every quarter or two.  They consist of an ever-shifting group of 5-15 students attempting to produce a finished product of some complexity over the course of about 60 caffeine and pizza -fueled hours.  They're an exercise in both the best software engineering practices (those we need to manage the chaos) and the worst (those dispensed with for lack of time).  They take team management and dynamics to a new level, and are hella fun.

Past RapDev projects I've worked on include:

*    Waffle, a secure peer-to-peer file sharing program.  I was responsible for a chunk of the GUI.
*    ConnectN, a networked, variable sized version of Connect 4 with multiple players and powerups.  I was responsible for the board logic.
*    Capture-the-flag, a networked top-down maze navigation and CTF game.  I did some of the game logic and a lot of the overall subsystem design.
*    AutoRegister, a system to manage classes and automatically register students in RIT's system.  Involved a lot of screen scraping- I worked on the actual registration code using Python and PycURL.

####Various Class Projects
These include a Swing/Java Calendar, a Google Web Toolkit based Event Tracker, and an election-predicting neural network, among others.

###Misc
*    Was the secretary for the RIT Debate Society
*    An active member of the Society of Software Engineers (SSE)
*    A volunteer student mentor/tutor for the SSE
*    Helped organize several speakers coming to RIT including Alan Clements, Alex Shank, Alan Atlas, and Bjarne Stroustrup as a member of the committee running SSE's "Voices in Software Engineering" speaker series.
*    Member of RIT intramural teams for soccer, ultimate frisbee, and dodgeball.
*    Won the 2008 "A Bright Idea" contest for formulating and presenting cool business ideas. 
